# Java Basics #
Java is one of the most popular and widely used programming languages.
Java is used in all kinds of applications like Mobile Applications (Android is Java-based), desktop applications, web applications, client-server applications, enterprise applications, and many more.



**Java Concept:**

Object: Object is an element or an entity that has a state and behavior. For example, a dog can be considered an object with a color, a breed, and a name. It has behaviors such as barking and eating.
Class: A class is a collection of multiple objects.just like the example class name (Hello,world) It is used to create as many objects as you like. Classes are used to organize code.

## example ##
---
 This is a simple Java program.
 FileName : "HelloWorld.java".
  
class HelloWorld
{
     Your program begins with a call to main().
     Prints "Hello, World" to the terminal window.
    public static void main(String args[])
    {
        System.out.println("Hello, World");
    }
}


**Output**
Hello, World


#  Quiz to solve #
What is a correct syntax to output "Hello World" in Java?

How do you insert COMMENTS in Java code?

Which data type is used to create a variable that should store text?

How do you create a variable with the floating number 42.12?

Which method can be used to find the length of a string?
 


## **Glossary** ##
---
argument

A data item specified in a method call. An argument can be a literal value, a variable, or an expression.

array

A collection of data items, all of the same type, in which each item's position is uniquely designated by an integer.


atomic

Refers to an operation that is never interrupted or left in an incomplete state under any circumstance.

authentication

The process by which an entity proves to another entity that it is acting on behalf of a specific identity.

authorization

See access control.

binary operator

An operator that has two arguments.

bit

The smallest unit of information in a computer, with a value of either 0 or 1.

bitwise operator

An operator that manipulates the bits of one or more of its operands individually and in parallel. Examples include the binary logical operators (&, |, ^), the binary shift operators (<<, >>, >>>) and the unary one's complement operator (~).

block

In the Java programming language, any code between matching braces. Example: { x = 1; }.

boolean

Refers to an expression or variable that can have only a true or false value. The Java programming language provides the boolean type and the literal values true and false.

break

A Java keyword used to resume program execution at the statement immediately following the current statement. If followed by a label, the program resumes execution at the labeled statement.

byte

A sequence of eight bits. Java provides a corresponding byte type.

bytecode

Machine-independent code generated by the Java compiler and executed by the Java interpreter.



case

A Java keyword that defines a group of statements to begin executing if a value specified matches the value defined by a preceding switch keyword.

casting

Explicit conversion from one data type to another.

catch

A Java keyword used to declare a block of statements to be executed in the event that a Java exception, or run time error, occurs in a preceding try block.

char

A Java keyword used to declare a variable of type character.
